---
layout: post
title: Python Notes (Conditions)
subtitle: to be updated periodically
categories: Website
tags: [Github, Website]
---
## IF + IF ELSE + IF ELIF

if condition :   
    expression  

elif condition : 
    expression  

else : 
    expression   

## WHILE

while condition :   
    expression  


## FOR
# lists
for var in seq :   
    expression   

OR   

for var, var2 in enumerate(list)   
    print("")  

# Dictionaries and NumPy arrays 
dictionaries require a method and NumPy arrays use a function  

for key, value in dictionary.items()  
    expression  

numpy arrays:  
for x in np.nditer(myarray) :   
    expression  
    


# Pandas dataframes and loops
for lab, row in data.iterrows() :
    expression   

# Use .apply(str.upper)
cars["COUNTRY"] = cars["country"].apply(str.upper)  
print(cars)


## Hackers statitistics

Randomness has many uses in science, art, statistics, cryptography, gaming, gambling, and other fields. You're going to use randomness to simulate a game.  

All the functionality you need is contained in the random package, a sub-package of numpy.   

seed(): sets the random seed, so that your results are reproducible between simulations. As an argument, it takes an integer of your choosing. If you call the function, no output will be generated.  

rand(): if you don't specify any arguments, it generates a random float between zero and one.  

Import numpy as np.  
Use seed() to set the seed; as an argument, pass 123.  
Generate your first random float with rand() and print it out.  

# Import numpy as np 
import numpy as np  

# Set the seed
np.random.seed(123)  

# Generate and print random float
print(np.random.rand())  


# Import numpy and set seed
import numpy as np  
np.random.seed(123)  

# Use randint() to simulate a dice
print(np.random.randint(1,7))  

# Use randint() again
print(np.random.randint(1,7))  

Make a list random_walk that contains the first step, which is the integer 0.  
Finish the for loop:  
The loop should run 100 times.  
On each iteration, set step equal to the last element in the random_walk list. You can use the index -1 for this.  
Next, let the if-elif-else construct update step for you.  
The code that appends step to random_walk is already coded.  
Print out random_walk.  

# NumPy is imported, seed is set

# Initialize random_walk
random_walk = [0]

# Complete the ___
for x in range(100) :
    # Set step: last element in random_walk  
    step = random_walk[-1]  

    # Roll the dice  
    dice = np.random.randint(1,7)  

    # Determine next step  
    if dice <= 2:  
        step = step - 1  
    elif dice <= 5:  
        step = step + 1  
    else:  
        step = step + np.random.randint(1,7)  

    # append next_step to random_walk  
    random_walk.append(step)  

# Print random_walk
print(random_walk)  

 step =max(0, step - 1)   to make sure it doesnt go back less than zero  
 